Title: DAO Directory-A Bankless DAO & List of DAOs collab
Authors: johne#5671 & erinr#7860
Related Guild/Squad: DAOlationships, senad.eth
Date: Aug 23, 2022
Summary
Collab between List of DAOs and Bankless DAO (bDAO) to create a directory of DAOs.
Simple Directory to be used by DAOlationships Guild.
bDAO members can submit to get their favorite DAOs listed on the list and earn a small amount of Bank (25 Bank Tokens…can be adjusted to a higher amount if preferred).
bDAO members can submit to research/archive DAOs who have completed their mission or are no longer active to ensure accurate information in the market.
Background
Why are you making this proposal?
This proposal was born when I saw the “DAO index channel” and DAOlationships Guild. At the List of DAOs we also value relationships and are growing our directory reaching out DAO by DAO. By combining efforts and aligning these ideas, community members can collectively build a more comprehensive List of DAOs.
What problem or opportunity does this proposal target?
If DAOs don’t have the “metrics” (i.e. community or money) they often do not get the awareness or traction of bigger DAOs. This is particularly problematic when it comes to diversity and inclusion, where underrepresented minorities are typically not funded the same as their majority counterparts or do not have access. It is why we started the List of DAOs and focus on mission. We want to bring awareness to all DAOs.
What are the driving factors behind why you think this is a good idea?
We believe this collaboration is a good idea because it aligns with the values of Bankless. We grew List of DAOs from 0 DAOs to over 200+ one-by-one- doing the hard work and building relationships (Not pulling APIs).
MISSION & VALUES ALIGNMENT
How does this project help the DAO achieve its mission and align with it’s values?
Bankless DAO’s values include Education, Integrity, Decentralized Governance, and Culture. We want to bring awareness to all DAOs, provide simple information and education, allow that directory to be supported by members, and do so in a way that helps the web3 community grow and collectively better itself.
Specification
The What
We are proposing a collaboration between List of DAOs, Bankless DAO members, and the DAOlationship Guild to integrate the List of DAOs as the DAO directory for Bankless DAO. The List of DAOs is already established with over 200+ DAOs listed, so no development cost is needed as the product is in place. A submission document will be created and placed in the DAOlationships channel that can be used to submit a DAO to be added to the directory. Upon form submission by a Bankless DAO member, the DAO will be vetted by the List of DAOs team to ensure it has members, is functioning as a DAO, has proper links, etc. Once approved, the DAO will be added, and the member who submitted it will be given a small amount of BANK Token (5-25). Likewise, members can earn BANK token by submitting a DAO to be archived and updated. This could be because a DAO has met it mission or is no longer active.**
Bank Token
This proposal requests 35,000 Bank tokens, the current cost of one membership, to start. 35,000/25 (BANK given to each submission) is around 1400 DAOs that can be listed. We list about a DAO a day on the List of DAOs, so this project has a span of approximately 4 years, or 1400/365. Members can submit multiple DAOs to be approved or archived but all submissions must be vetted.**
Benefits of collab to the Bankless DAO- The proposed benefits of this collab are:
The BANK tokens go directly back to the members.
Collab creates a living DAO Directory that focuses efforts with List of DAOs. List of DAOs staff will not be eligible to submit/archive DAOs and receive BANK.
bDAO free ad on List of DAOs, change Logo to add " Red Line" and link that goes to DAOlationships Channel.
bDAO members get whitelisted on decentra-list.com 7 NFT membership (reduced cost for bDAO members)
Every Decentra-List membership NFT sold within the 1st year of release 10% of proceeds will go to DAOlationships Guild Wallet.
Benefits of collab to the List of DAOs- The proposed benefits of this collab are:
List of DAOs becomes more decentralized with community-driven participation.
List of DAOs gets identified as a partner with Bankless DAO on website.
List of DAOs identifies as official community DAO Directory of Bankless.
Two Champions from List of DAOs receive bDAO memberships for 4-years of work.
Financial Implications
Funding requirements- In total, this proposal requests 105,000 BANK Tokens. 35,000 will be used to distribute to members, and 70,00 will be used to provide two memberships to johne#5671 & erinr#7860. Since the List of DAOs will be hosting the directory and Listing the information, we would like to become full-time members of the Bankless DAO and specifically work with the DAOlationships team. Memberships will be our form of payment for hosting the directory and managing submissions. No other costs are associated with this.
Funding Calculations- Using 35,000 BANK as a starting point and giving back 25 Bank to each DAO approved will last this project approximately 4 years 35,000/25 (BANK)=1400 DAOs listed. 1400/365(DAYs) =365. We typically List DAOs after a vetting process and announce them on business days (Monday-Friday). Tokens will be given as tips through collab join, and we bill given in the DAOlationships channel for full transparency. The idea is simple and should last for approximately four years.
SUCCESS METRICS OR KPIS
Success will simply be measured by the number of DAOs submitted by Bankless Members. These numbers can be tracked transparently and announced at AMA or DAOlationships weekly meetings. This tracking will be included in the partnership with the memberships for johne#5671 & erinr#7860.
BRAND USAGE
Bankless DAO will get a free ad on List of DAOs that links to website or Discord.
List of DAOs gets identified as partner with Bankless DAO on website.
List of DAOs becomes official community DAO Directory supported by Bankless DAO members.
NEXT STEPS
Set up submission form in DAOlationships channel.
Announce partnership
Add advertisement to List of DAOs/ Bankless websites (coordinate with marketing)
Erin and John become members
Funds put in wallet or allocated to give back to members
Announce the start of program and receive DAOs vetting process begins.
FAQs
What does the form look like / how detailed will it be?
The form will be simple to use, and, all members will have access. We have a form already on List of DAOs, but will have to add in a member Discord name to attribute Bank to.
Will submissions appear in a public list as soon as they are submitted?
Submissions will appear on a public ledger but must be vetted by the List of DAOs team prior to being added to the website.
Is there any sort of guarantee you two will keep your L1 membership?
Yes!! We need them to run the submissions and be in the channel to answer questions and provide updates! It is also just bad Business tactics to ask for a membership then leave. We are not that. Relationships are key, and we are working on List of DAOs as our full-time jobs. We want to be here
We already have a lot of time invested into the DAOlationships CRM. Are there plans of integrating the two?
No plans to integrate the two have been proposed to the List of DAOs team. List of DAOs is a simple tool but could be upgraded based on feedback! We have talked with community members though and could see the CRM being the detailed directory versus the List of DAOs being the simple onboarding site.
If we do use the List of DAOs as our CRM, how will you decentralize to assure we don’t lose access in case of accident or emergency?
We can give emergency access to DAOlationships Guild Coordinator. This will ensure at least three members have access.
Do you have any plans to integrate wallet connections into your platform?
Yes, we have an active application with Raid Guild and the wallet connect locations has already been placed on the website and is visible today.
List of DAOs SQUAD BACKGROUND
When we list a new DAO on the List of DAOs, we sometimes say “Welcome to the fam!” and we mean that! The List of DAOs was started by a family and we want to include as many DAOs in that as possible.
Erin is the WOMS- Wizard of Misc. Stuff at List of DAOs (hence the Harry Potter Chippi). She is a Co-Founder of the List of DAOs, Creator of the Decentralized Diary and previously was an Occupational Therapy and Director of Clinical Affairs @ a Telehealth company. Education- MS: Occupational Therapy; BS: Social & Behavioral Sciences.
John is the “The DA”- Dream Alchemist💡. He is the Co-Founder of List of DAOs and has over 14 years of military service. Education- Bachelor’s: Marketing /Management; Master’s: Leadership & Business Ethics; Master’s: Organizational leadership.
Finley is our dog! He is the COBR- Chief of Belly Rubs at the List of DAOs and is currently Undoxxed a.k.a “undogxed”.
**senad.eth #8782-is going to put the poll option for this proposal. The option to add a poll was not showing up for some reason.
Here are the slides I made as well:
Lastly we want to thank you for your time and this, and we hope the community will consider our proposal!
John & Erin
decentra-list.com
Decentra-List 2
The Decentra-List is a one-stop-shop for decentralized resources. It includes resources such as the List of DAOs and the Decentralized Diary. Visit our website at www.Decentra-List.com
List of DAOs direct site- List of DAOs 3
Twitter: @ListofDAOs
4