Proposal Name: PrimeDAO <> BanklessDAO Partnership
Program Champion(s): Icedcool, Bl0ckB0y.eth
OP Date: May 10, 2022
Status: Forum
Date Created: 5/19/22
Date Posted: 6/1/22
TL;DR
BanklessDAO would like to create a partnership with Prime DAO because we share the mission of DAO2DAO coordination and collaboration
PrimeDAO provides crucial infrastructure and accessibility tools within the DAO ecosystem
With similar mission, their is a potential for both DAOs to launch products and go to market together
Proposed value of the swap would be:
25,000 worth of $BANK for 25,000 of $D2D tokens (Taken at a 30-day average)
The tokens will be vested over a year with a 3 month cliff
Background
BanklessDAO (referred to as “bDAO”) is a decentralized community dedicated to stewarding the Bankless movement through media, culture, and education.
Since launch, bDAO has become a flourishing community with 15,000 Discord members and 4,525 token holders, catalyzing a number of promising initiatives ranging from content generation (the Rug, Decentralized Law, State of the DAOs, and more), education (Bankless Academy), consulting (Bankless Consulting), engineering and development work (Degen, Bounty Board), community NFT and merch sales, and new financial products (BED and GMI with IndexCoop).
PrimeDAO is a collective of DeFi builders and DAOists focused on researching and building next-generation coordination tools for decentralized organizations. Their mission is to enable DAOs to build a stronger ecosystem across web3. PrimeDAO provides crucial infrastructure and accessibility tools for both incumbents and new players allowing DAOs to be more resilient through cooperation and community.
Due to the high alignment in purpose to deliver tools and resources to DAOs, this token swap would signal a partnership relationship which could lead the two DAOs developing and going to market with products together. Additionally BanklessDAO could benefit from utilizing some of the key products being developed by PrimeDAO.
Key PrimeDAO Products
Prime Launch is a decentralized token offering platform that allows for fair an user friendly token launches
Prime Rating is a permissionless framework for quantifying DeFi protocol risk and quality
Prime Deals is an interface for DAO to DAO interactions
Prime Pools are DAO-governed liquidity pools that bridge liquidity between allied ecosystems and create index pools
Specifications
$25,000 worth of $BANK tokens will be swapped for $25,000 of $D2D tokens taken the 30-day average at the end of the vote on both sides
Both tokens will be vested for 1 year with a 3 month cliff
This swap would enable BanklessDAO and PrimeDAO to signal a partnership that will enable both parties to mutually work on products and go to market together.
Upon approval, BanklessDAO Tokenomics Department will use PrimeDeals to structure the swap with the vesting periods built in.
Stipulations
Prime DAO will support the development of the Bankless DAO and, where possible, share learnings and resources with Bankless DAO.
Bankless DAO will support the development of the Prime DAO and, where possible, share learnings and resources with Prime DAO.
$25.000 worth of $BANK tokens will be swapped for $25,000 of $D2D tokens taken the 30-day average at the end of the vote on both sides.
To ensure long-term alignment, Prime DAO will hold no less than 50% of the tokens received through 2023 and act as a meta-delegate in the Bankless DAO ecosystem. And Bankless DAO will hold no less than 50% of the tokens received through 2023 and act as a meta-delegate in the Prime DAO ecosystem.
Both DAOs will actively share DAO operational learnings and workflows, starting with a bi-monthly knowledge-sharing session covering three topics relevant to both DAOs. The first session will be organized at the end of May.
Both DAOs will work on article series on the DAO2DAO ecosystem, its culture, and its growth.
The Partnership is open-ended and does not have an expiry date.
Both organizations can at any moment terminate the agreement through their respective governance systems.
SUCCESSFUL METRICS OR KPIS
Increased treasury value from the token swap
If the $D2D token outperforms BANK, bDAO would gain exposure to the $D2D token value.
PrimeDAO adopts bDAO’s products or services.
Discord Poll: Treasury Guild Member [temp check poll]
PrimeDAO <> BANK Swap
100%
Approve
0%
Deny
1
voter
Show vote
Closed Jun '22
3