Title: Bankless DAO x ConsenSys DAOlationship Proposal
Authors: Erikson Herman [thetruth#1976], Matt Wright [mattwright.eth (,)#5268], Lucas Campbell [0xLucas#3124] + Senad Dilji [senad.eth #8782]
Squad: Erikson Herman [thetruth#1976], Matt Wright [mattwright.eth (,)#5268], April Kim [ApK48#6673] + Lucas Campbell [0xLucas#3124] + Senad Dilji [senad.eth #8782]
Date Created: July 25, 2022
Date Posted: September 13, 2022
SUMMARY
ConsenSys is seeking the opportunity to onboard some of their employees to the Bankless DAO in order to help the DAO across various guilds and projects, allowing their employees to learn how to effectively explore DAO culture, experiment with external contribution in the DAO community and continuously provide value to the wider Ethereum ecosystem.
As part of this DAOlationship proposal, ConsenSys would like to secure 50 Guest Passes for a 3 month period so that ConsenSys employees can have a trial period to experience the Bankless DAO prior to independently joining the Bankless DAO (i.e. purchasing 35,000 BANK tokens on their own) and potentially contributing if they should choose to do so.
In addition, Bankless DAO will offer additional stewardship, educational materials and support to an agreed upon capacity and ConsenSys will allocate an equal value to this partnership.
At ConsenSys, we encourage all employees to dedicate at least one full day every month to third party initiatives external to ConsenSys—namely, DAOs. This is an org-wide plan for employees to migrate to a contributor model, unbundle the mystic DAO ecosystem, and to “green pill” our people into becoming fully consumed by web3 culture.
BACKGROUND
ConsenSys is making this proposal because we are committed to bettering both the overall Ethereum ecosystem and the DAO ecosystem and we believe that a DAOlationship with Bankless will result in several positive outcomes for both parties as well as learning outcomes that the overall community will benefit from.
Positive Outcomes - Bankless
Bankless DAO will gain access to potentially valuable contributors who have the opportunity to contribute some of their working hours to third party initiatives external to ConsenSys—namely, DAOs.
Bankless DAO may be able to increase the output of various guilds if these working relationships prove to be fruitful; in turn, this will increase the footprint of the Bankless brand
Bankless DAO will have a direct line of communication with a steward from the ConsenSys team to ensure that all parties are satisfied with the relationship; specifically, it is less likely that contributors will disappear or become disengaged as can sometimes be the case with individual contributors
Positive Outcomes - ConsenSys
Allow ConsenSys employees to experiment with contributing to one of the most respected DAOs in the ecosystem
ConsenSys employees will gain insight into how a well functioning DAO organizes and operates
ConsenSys employees will be able to expand their horizons in terms of the types of work that can be completed in DAOs and potentially find new areas of interest (ex. writing / research / operations / marketing) that they may not be exposed to in their day-to-day work life
Learning Outcomes - Both Parties
Strengthen the DAO onboarding process for both parties and learn previously unrecognized insights about DAO onboarding
MISSION & VALUES ALIGNMENT
The Bankless DAO mission and values are as follows:
Mission: We will help the world go Bankless by creating user-friendly onramps for people to discover decentralized financial technologies through education, media, and culture.
Vision: To live in a world where anyone with an internet connection has access to the financial tools needed to achieve financial independence
Values: Education, Integrity, Decentralized Governance, and Culture
Education: We learn from each other. We seek to become a trusted guide that empowers people all over the globe to adopt decentralized finance by sharing accurate, truthful, and objective information.
Integrity: We operate transparently and build trust through radically public discourse and financial auditability.
Decentralized Governance: We put decision making into the hands of the collective. We create legitimacy through an environment where the best ideas win.
Culture: We reward action and embrace risk. We empower our community to continually drive new initiatives by providing a space to self-organize and quickly move from idea to action.
ConsenSys values are as follows:
We act with kindness.
We continually evolve.
We cultivate community.
We embrace innovation.
We deliver impact.
As you can see, there is a lot of overlap between the core values of both Bankless and ConsenSys. In particular, both parties aim to educate and onboard as many people as possible into the Ethereum ecosystem and to help all citizens of the world to evolve and embrace innovation.
By partnering with ConsenSys, the Bankless DAO will be able to further their mission by gaining access to potential contributors who share these same values and who have a proven track record of delivering on projects across various departments (guilds).
SCOPE OF WORK
As part of this proposal, ConsenSys employees will be encouraged to identify 1-2 guilds and 1-2 work stream/active workgroups for their potential contributions during this 3 month trial period. In addition, it is highly encouraged that ConsenSys employees join the weekly calls of their selected guilds as well as the DAO-wide community call on Friday’s at 3pm UTC.
Details on specific guilds and call times can be found below:
Community Call
Join the weekly community call on Friday 3pm UTC!
Writers Guild
Join the weekly calls on Monday 5:30pm UTC and contribute to one of the following workgroups:
Newsletter team
Editorial and Publishing Arm (EPA)
Bankless Publishing
Treasury Guild
Join the weekly tokenomics department calls on Friday 2pm UTC and contribute to one of the following workgroups:
L2 Migration Workgroup
Bank Utility Workgroup
Tokenomics Leveling Up Initiative
Join the weekly treasury management calls on Wednesday 2pm UTC and contribute to one of the following teams:
Guiding Principles Documentation (Governance) Team
Accounting Reconciliation Team
Investment Planning Team
Project Revenue Recognition Team
Research Guild
Join the weekly calls on Monday 4pm UTC and contribute to one of the following active workgroups:
Bankless Research
DAO Sentiment Tracker
TestDAO
Operations Guild
Join the weekly calls on Tuesday 6pm UTC and contribute to one of the following workstreams:
DAO Cartography
Coordinate
NPS Surveys / NPS Implementor
Community Calls
Notion Administration
Seasonal Planning
Community Stewards
Discord Administration
GM.xyz | web3 native social media
Marketing Guild
Join the weekly calls on Thursday 6pm UTC and contribute to one of the following workstreams:
External Marketing Campaign Team
Content Creation on Social Media:
Twitter
Instagram
Facebook
Telegram
LinkedIn
TikTok
Legal Guild
Join the weekly calls on Thursday 3pm UTC and contribute to one of the following workstreams:
Decentralized Law
Tax Corner
Whitepaper
Crypto Legal Observations
DAO legal entity
Education Guild
Join the weekly calls on Sunday 3pm UTC and contribute to one of the following workgroups:
Administrator Workgroup
Education Workgroup
Cross-Guild Coordination & Promotion Workgroup
Talent Coordinator Workgroup
Design Guild
Join the weekly calls on Wednesday 4pm UTC and contribute to one of the following projects:
Community Call POAP design
Instagram Strategy & Design for BanklessDAO
Decentralized Arts Weekly Spotlight
DAO Heat Design Contest
Design Guild Weekly Newsletter
Bankless Designers - The Drawing Board Website
External Marketing Campaign Team
DAOlationships
Join the weekly calls on Monday 7pm UTC and contribute to one of the following workstreams:
Focused Demos & Presentation
AMA Special Ops
PMA (Pitch Me Anything) Workgroup
External Marketing Campaign Team
Developer’s Guild
Join the weekly calls on Monday 6pm UTC and contribute to one of the following projects:
Bankless Academy
Bankless Checkout
Bankless Loans
Bounty Board
DAO Website
DEGEN
Dev First Quest
Dev Guild - Knowledge Session
Gov Bots
Mad Hatter - The BanklessDAO Discord Bot
Mobile App/Content Gateway
Solidity Training
Audio-Visual Guild
Join the weekly calls on Wednesday 7pm UTC and contribute to one of the following initatives:
AV Guild Services Workgroup
External Marketing Campaign Team
Youtube GQ Team
Podcast Hatchery
BanklessHQ Clips
Analytics Guild
Join the weekly calls on Thursday 2am UTC and contribute to one of the following workstreams:
DAO Dash
Bounty Board Queries
Onboard MVO
POAP Metrics/Analytics
Discord Data/Metrics
DAO Member Categories
DAO Treasury Dashboard
Twitter Analytics
Tipping Metrics/Analytics
BANK Trading Volume
Social Media Metrics
Current BANK Allocation
Social Analytics for B2B-Initiative
Additional List of Projects of Interest:
Bankless Card
Bankless Academy
Crypto Sapiens
Podcast Hatchery
BanklessAfrica
Bankless DAOplomats
The Rug
Governator
DAOversity
Bankless Mobile App
Bankless Nouns WTF
Bankless Loans
BanklessDAO Weekly Rollup
bDAO at global events
Fight Club (NFT gated)
IMN - International Media Nodes
Ultrasound Merch Supply Chain
Additional details regarding specific projects can be found within the “proposal” column of the BanklessDAO Projects Notion:
Notion
Notion – The all-in-one workspace for your notes, tasks, wikis, and databases. 7
A new tool that blends your everyday work apps into one. It's the all-in-one workspace for you and your team
SPECIFICATION
ConsenSys employees will go through the bDAO onboarding process and then select a project or guild workstream that fits their skills.
This will include tapping into the new joiner session, first quest, and joining the first few community calls every Friday.
From there, ConsenSys employees will have the option to allocate a percentage of their work time towards their respective initiative, with the goal of driving value and additional manpower towards these projects.
Communication & Marketing
This initiative is a first of its kind and we should highlight that. After discussion with the proposal’s working group, we’ve outlined the following communications and marketing strategy to pair with this initiative (assuming it passes community vote).
ConsenSys Marketing/PR Announcement
Bankless DAO marketing assistance (retweets, sharing on socials, different media outlets, etc.)
Bankless HQ marketing assistance (retweets, sharing in bankless HQ media assets); ex. Weekly Rollup podcast (Fridays) and Market Mondays newsletter (Mondays)
Twitter Spaces with Bankless DAO x ConsenSys
Roadmap/Timeline
Here’s a high level roadmap for this initiative.
September 13th
Proposal posted in Bankless Forum
September 19th (Week of)
Proposal voting complete
ConsenSys Marketing/PR Announcement
ConsenSys employee vetting begins
October 3rd
ConsenSys employees officially join Bankless DAO
October 17th
ConsenSys employees begin applying to various Bankless DAO guilds
November 10th - ConsenSys DAO Day #5
Bankless Presentation and/or Co-working Session? ConsenSys contributors discuss some of the projects they’re working on?
January 9th, 2023
Program concludes. ConsenSys and Bankless share learnings (internally)
SUCCESS METRICS OR KPIS
Success metrics for the initial phase of this partnership will be as follows:
Total number of ConsenSys employees successfully onboarded to Bankless DAO
Total number of ConsenSys employees successfully onboarded into a project/guild
Bankless DAO project and guild leader evaluations of new talent & value add
Total number of ConsenSys employees who complete a joint survey providing feedback to both ConsenSys and Bankless DAO regarding the onboarding and contribution process at Bankless DAO
NEXT STEPS
ConsenSys will provide a CSV file with the names/Discord names of 50 employees to the Bankless DAO team
Bankless will supply Guest Passes to these ConsenSys employees - giving them Level 1 access to the Bankless DAO discord
*These employees will receive a “Guest Pass” tag on their Discord IDs
ConsenSys employees will review all appropriate onboarding documentation for the Bankless DAO (Ex. BanklessDAO Cheat Sheet for New Joiners, Official Website) and will join the DAO and begin applying to various guilds
Bankless will notify various talent coordinators at each respective guild that ConsenSys employees will be applying to join their guild (although this does not guarantee that these employees will be accepted to these particular guilds)
TL;DR
Bankless DAO to be onboarded as ConsenSys ‘DAOlationship’ Partner
ConsenSys to be onboarded as Bankless DAO partner
ConsenSys employees will have the option to contribute to Bankless DAO as would any other individual of the DAO contributor process
Bankless DAO will offer additional stewardship, educational materials and support to an agreed upon capacity
Completely voluntary amount of time and resource requirement
ConsenSys will allocate equal value of partnership
ConsenSys employees will be treated as individuals within the DAO and will contribute for 1-3 months as a trial period without full intention of joining or contributing
If ConsenSys employees decide to join the DAO and/ or contribute, that will be up to the individual
All the work provided by ConsenSys employees will not be the property of ConsenSys. Ownership of IP will be under the jurisdiction or governance of the DAO.
ConsenSys employees officially joining the DAO will have to purchase BANK in the same manner as other contributors
ConsenSys employees will not be forced to work on any projects and will be responsible for their own professional output and agreements while participating in the DAO
SQUAD BACKGROUND
Erikson Herman is a DAO Strategist at ConsenSys and a Membership Committee member at Friends With Benefits (FWB).
Matt Wright is the Director of DAOs + web3 Community at ConsenSys as well as the Managing Partner at EVM Fund.
April Kim is a Product Research and Development team member at ConsenSys with a focus on DAOs.
Lucas Campbell is a Senior Editor at Bankless, a genesis member of Bankless DAO and a founding member of Fire Eyes DAO.
Senad Dilji is a Research PM at Bankless, a DAOlationships Guild Coordinator at Bankless DAO, and a DAOlationships Team Lead at Weavr DAO.
Each of us are excited to help onboard ConsenSys employees to the Bankless DAO ecosystem and to help better the wider Ethereum ecosystem. WAGMI
Poll
78%
Approve ConsenSys DAOlationship Proposal
22%
Deny
37
voters
Show vote
9