DAO Wide Coordinape Season 7 Proposal Draft 3
Author - Infinitehomie.eth
Date - Jan 3, 2023
Scope - Minor Patch
Involved - Ops Department
Summary:
This Draft involves the final decision on what is needed for the Season 7 DAO Wide Coordinape process.
We are looking to decide whether to Pause the Season 7 DAO Wide Coordinape, or whether we need to lower the total BANK Allocation Amount for the DAO Wide Coordinape to 500,000 BANK.
Background
Please refer to Draft 1, and Draft 2 for more background on this situation. I have attached the two previous drafts to this proposal. From the previous proposal, it has been shown that we do need to enact a change to Season 7’s DAO Wide Coordinape. It has been voted in Draft 2.
BDIP - Coordinape Season 7 Proposal - Pause/Reduction (draft 2) - Governance / Proposals - Bankless DAO 11
DAO Wide Coordinape Pause Proposal Draft 1 - Governance - Bankless DAO 6
This is due to alleged misbehavior with respect to the Season 6 Period 2 DAO-Wide Coordinape (also known as Season 6 Period 1 due to issues with the Season 6 Period DAO-Wide Coordinape) See those Conversations here (NOTE: This proposal will hereafter be known as the December DAO-Wide Coordinape) -
Financial Implications:
If the vote is for a Season 7 Pause of the DAO-Wide Coordinape, 4.5 Million Bank will be saved.
If the vote is for a Season 7 Reduction to a total of 500,000 BANK total per period for the DAO-Wide Coordinape, 3.5 million BANK will be saved.
bDAO Impact:
This is DAO Wide, specifically members who apply for the DAO Wide Coordinape. Season 6 December Period reported approximately 187 Members.
Season 6 Month 1 BanklessDAO December Coordinape Results 5
Analysis:
We will provide analysis of the savings for the DAO as a result of Ops and Coordinape Investigation. Current Information can be found in the Coordinape Workstream, and in the Coordinape Investigation Project Thread housed in the Research Guild Workstream.
Next Steps:
Obtain Quorum
Implement decision in Season 7 Spec.
The Choice is Yours:
** What should we do for Season 7 DAO-Wide Coordinape?**
Should we Enact a 1 Season Pause for the Season 7 DAO-Wide Coordinape?
OR
Should we reduce the Season 7 DAO-Wide Coordinape to 500,000 BANK per Period
53%
We Should Reduce the Season 7 Coordinape to 500,000 per period.
47%
We Should enact a Season 7 Pause for the DAO-Wide Coordinape
62
voters
Show vote
1