Introduction
This forum post is for raising awareness around electing the Season 6 Grants Committee. This will be going to snapshot later today.
Date: 10/28/22
Applicants
senad.eth🏴#8782
Bananachain🏴#6171
Infinitehomie.eth#4930
thinkDecade🏴#718
Sprinklesforwinners#1125
tesa_fc#9745
Feems#4876
NOTE: Five seats are available. One of the seats is replacing Ap0ll0 mid-term and will only serve the remainder for the duration of Season 6. The candidate with the 5th most votes will serve this half-term. See Context. 4
Full Applications
Below are the full applications as posted in the S6 Election Application forum post 7.
senad.eth🏴#8782
Reason for applying
I want to join and be part of the team that is responsible for reviewing grants applications proposed to BanklessDAO and make assessments based on the best interest for our organisation. Furthermore, I want to help make informed decisions, find solutions for problematic applications and ultimately learn as much as possible along the way. I am a very critical person and pay close attention to the level of details, which the proposals I’ve submitted and contributions I’ve made so far can hopefully back up!
Qualifications
Project Champion & Executive Director of Bankless Research
Recognised Delegate of 1inch
HIGHLY aligned with bDAOs mission
Deeply engaged and involved in shaping bDAOs’ governance & operations framework with the GSEs
Successfully applied for funds to the research guild 1 as well as grants committee 1
Helped members to purpose for funds from research guild in S3 with following grants proposal 1
Successfully applied for grants from Fei/TribeDAO 2 for Bankless Research
Sponsor(s)
Icedcool:black_flag:#4947, Above Average Joe#5427, NF Thinker:black_flag:#2814, ManuelMaccou #6974, 0xRene#6523, Feems #4876, p8ul.eth#1559, jarisjames#8072, thinkDecade #7181, Quietfox#2574, jengajojo.eth:black_flag:#5896, Reinis#8935, Joe_King:black_flag:#5039, iSpeakNerd.eth #6969, salmanneedsajob #6938, WinVerse#2755, lion917#3637, 0xBaer.eth
I also wrote an essay with a personal approach to the GC. The purpose is to state my “guiding principles” as a member as well as the questions I’ll seek answers for in the grants revision process.
I hope our community will find this piece of information useful: my personal approach to the Grants Committee 11.
Bananachain🏴#6171
Reason for applying
In line with the mandate of the GC I am interested in contributing to a constructive review process of the different projects submitted by this vibrant and creative community, as I believe that these form an integral part of moving bDAO forward and are being worked on very hard by highly motivated individuals.
Further I would like to explore how these different projects can best be tied into a bDAO orbit of entities.
Qualifications
Consistent treasury department contributor
Lead project revenue recognition and multichain WG
Director treasury Bankless Research project
A knack for linking seemingly unrelated issues to something new
Healthy mix of dogmatic and pragmatic to attain results
Sponsor(s)
gruad#1079; cryptodad:black_flag:#5814; HiroKennellyᵍᵐ:black_flag:#0001; senad.eth #8782
Infinitehomie.eth#4930
Reason For Applying:
I believe that Season 6 is a critical season for the future of Bankless DAO, and what that future means for Web3 as a whole.
I believe that I can take a critical eye towards grants going forward in BanklessDAO, while realizing how important diversity is, and will be in revenue generation, and utility for the DAO. It is realized that grants need to be held at a critical standard, considering the current state of BANK in this particular market. I realize, and would like to focus on management of GC Treasury, by way of having a greater focus on which grants continue forward.
I want to make sure that projects are truly going forward on merit, and not simply on name only. There have been many important projects that have made an amazing impact on BanklessDAO, because of the support of Grants Committee. There have also been projects that have not.
I believe I can assist in finding that balance, and being an active, involved, and concerned member of GC.
Qualifications:
involvement in Treasury Management in Podcast Hatchery, Crypto Sapiens, and Research Guild.
7 years community banking experience, handling treasury management of various demographics, including experience in developing new strategies for the unbanked, to take control of their situation.
process development - managed processes for Crypto Sapiens and Research Guild.
2 years experience in notion management.
bachelors degree in philosophy. With which I have developed critical thinking skills that have been used to find unique solutions for diverse needs.
Sponsors
McEal, Whales, Sprinklesforwinners, feems, EurekaJohn, RedCrystalDragon, jarisjames
thinkDecade🏴#718
Reason for applying
As BanklessDAO experiments with various ways of effectively organizing our community(guilds, department etc). There’s a continuous challenge of how to effectively deploy funds to keep various initiatives(guilds, projects and now departments) running in a way that is sustainable to bDAO but not stifling to these initiatives.
The Grants Committee is constantly trying to come up with solutions to help deal with some of these challenges. I would passionately love to contribute to the Grants Committee in helping to create and implement solutions to some of these key challenges.
Qualifications
Am passionate and highly aligned with bDAO ethos. I have been here since day 1 relentlessly contributing and adding value in almost any way I can.
I got my footprint in the Education guild, Research guild, Daolationship guild, Bankless Africa, and many other places.
Sponsors
Trewkat, marvel, hirokennelly, Quietfox , 0xZFi.eth
Sprinklesforwinners#1125
Reason for applying:
I want to continue the path the current grants committee has set by assisting in the process of:
Studying of the project and assessing the goals of the project requesting funding. Evaluating the pros and cons that providing funding can indicate for the DAO.
Assisting in applying the above to submitted proposals for fair and equitable decision making.
Working with currently funded and projects seeking to acquire funding, assisting with developing and providing assistance maintaining achievable KPIs.
In doing this, I will maintain respect for the decisions made by the members of the DAO, with a sense of responsibility towards the consequences that the decisions taken may have on the whole DAO both in the immediate present and in the future.
Qualifications:
Project Management Education Lead, currently initiating Project Management Education courses through Bankless Academy, a long-standing DAO project.
Consistent contributor in The Treasury Department, with focus on Project Revenue Recognition and guiding principles.
Consistent contributor in the Tokenomics Department with focus on adding utility to the BANK token.
Contestant contributor in Bankless Research with regards to Treasury and Grants.
Core contributor with Crypto Sapiens, recently creating governing documents, working agreement and reforming the budget to focus on contributor renumeration and alignment with bDAOs project requirements.
In Season 5, I assisted to improve project KPI reporting/tracking.
In Season 5, I contributed two proposals to the forum and assisted with the development of 2 project proposals to the Grants Committee.
Sponsor(s)
0xRene#6523 , links#7868 , gruad#1079 , infinitehomie.eth !#4930 , GCal#8784 , # , McEal:black_flag:#0001 Icedcool:black_flag:#4947
tesa_fc#9745
Reason for applying
BanklessDAO is effectively an incubator and the grants committee is the investment committee. As a member of Fight Club, I would like to contribute Fight Club’s analytical criteria and due diligence flow to the grant committee’s decision process.
Qualifications
Angel investor, ex-portfolio manager, Fight Club cat herder, treasury committee lurker, experienced deck reviewer.
Sponsors
cryptodad, fibo, icedcool, 0xbaer, montgomery
Feems#4876
Reason for applying
Only being in Bankless for a little over half a year I have had the pleasure of working on many projects and guilds (ops, research, AV, Treasury, Bankless Africa, Global events team among other others), so it’s fair to say that I have put my hand in many of the baskets of this DAO and contributed heavily. Why is this important? well I think in order to accurately asses a project for the benefit of the DAO one must play in the different areas of the organization to understand a holistic perspective of this machine we call Bankless DAO but most importantly the efforts of it’s members.
My priorities as a grants committee member, if selected will be looking at the following
Projects that can sustain themselves and bring back revenue to our treasury
Projects that can assist with our brand awareness and potential conversion of casual members to core members
Projects that have a product market fit that can assist in the valuation of not only our brand but our token.
That’s my priorities - however I think we need to reduce the subjectivity of grant decisions but also allow opportunities for more people to be successful when they submit a proposal. I would also like to spearhead selection criteria for transparent and equitable selection (the same as standard grants do outside of web 3) - with a clear focus on impact, feasibility, costs, measurement criteria and how it relates to the members specified goals in this election (like mine stated above). It reduces the subjectivity and I think having alignment as a committee to what our goals are or providing a clearer measurement tool will allow for a more standardized and equitable decision process.
I also think that it would be very helpful to be specific as to what is missing from candidates application in order for them to be successful (again that is why if we had clear goals even as individual assessors we can refer back to it)
Qualifications
I am very aware of the projects and work of guilds in the Bankless ecosystem
I personally onboard people to BDAO based on their skill set to specific projects
I have run grant projects and applied for traditional grants
Frequently attend GC meetings to listen in
A DAO governance engineer and DAO governance educator whose goal is to create processes and designs for those intended to participate to do so
Incredibly pragmatic but will provide helpful feedback
Always there to help a member in need a
Sponsor(s)
jengajojo.eth, Icedcool🏴#4947,puncar#6764,HiroKennellyᵍᵐ🏴#0001,montgomery
#8177,infinitehomie.eth #4930
4