Title: Governance Election: Season 5 - Grants Committee Election
Date: 6/13/22
Introduction
This forum post is for raising awareness around electing the Season 5 Grants Committee. This will be going to snapshot later today.
Applicants
Discord ID
paul🏴#1559
Reason for applying:
I would like to contribute to to the grants committee by providing input and help decision making in a way that it benefits banklessDAO most. I am critical yet positive and opend minded. I’m very confident to vote for or against grants based on the best interest of the DAO.
Qualifications:
bDAO member since Day 1 - strong believer in the DAO
Deeply engaged in bDAO - currently role holder as Translators Guild Coordinator
IRL international project manager / consultant
Sponsor(s) (i.e., someone who will second your nomination):
GPe#6138 , @Ornella (OrnellaWeb3🏴#1111), @gioser (gioser🏴#6032), @0xbaer (0xBaer#6344)
Discord ID
Ap0ll0517🏴#5781
Reason for applying
The Grants Committee is the backbone of BanklessDAO. By funding projects and guilds, the GC helps foster and cultivates the growth of the DAO. There are some difficult discussions concerning the DAO’s trajectory, and I would like to be included in some of the conversations which are directly impacting the future of the DAO. I think I possess the skills and qualifications of a trustworthy steward.
Qualifications
I am a Level 2 Contributor and have been active in the DAO since inception. I have held roles such as Secretary and Treasurer within different guilds and varying projects. I have been an owner on many multi-sigs. In fact, I helped many of the DAO’s multi-sig wallets get sponsored by Parcel to avoid paying gas fees. I always have the best interest of the DAO in mind and I try to remain objective and fair in my decision making. My fellow peers can attest that I have a direct yet compassionate way of communicating. My interpersonal skills will help the GC maintain transparent communication with the DAO at large. I feel like my soft and hard skills are a perfect match for the rigorous responsibilities of the GC.
Sponsors
thinkDecade #7181 | Quietfox#2574 | nonsensetwice.ethᵍᵐ🏴(nonsensetwice#3475) | hirokennelly.ethᵍᵐ🏴#0001
Discord ID
jengajojo.eth🏴#5896
Reason for applying:
I would like to help contributor expectations on renumeration align with DAO expectations on performance. I feel that lately there has been too much stress on looking at projects from one angle which feels to be the extreme opposite of the approach 6 months ago.
Qualifications
I have been an active contributor in bDAO since S0 and currently I am part of several guilds and projects in bDAO, hence I believe that I have a good overview and background to make fair assessments. I work as an analyst in my meatverse job and I have lead a global non-profit in the past; this professional background combined with the knowledge of bDAO would be a valuable addition to the GC in S5
Sponsor(s):
@thinkDecade @NFThinker
Discord ID
Bananachain#6171
Reason for applying
Part of the appeal of bDAO is its creativity and openness which should be reflected in the diversity of its focussed funding of projects, guilds and its members. How to continue securing such adequate funding in future will be an important issue. Another topic is increasing the interest and participation of bDAO members in governance. A further area is how and in what way bDAO will want to interact and collaborate with third parties in the space to maintain and increase its reach going forward.
Qualifications
I have been active in bDAO since the beginning of the year. My main focus has been with treasury and there in particular in different working groups, most notable the L2 working group implementing the Polygon network for bDAO as part of a team of very enthusiastic colleagues. Currently we are in the process of establishing a trusted BANK bridging system within bDAO. So my activities have always been focussed on bDAO wide issues.
Sponsor(s)
@EthHunter @AboveAverageJoe @cryptodad @Joe_King @lawpanda
3