Title: Governance Solution Engineer Program - Completion of Cohort 1
Author(s): Icedcool🏴#4947
Date Created: December 8th, 2022
Date Posted: January 10th, 2023
Reference documents:
GSE Re-Implementation: Link 2
GSE Notion Page: Link 1
GSE Members
0xJustice
ManuelMaccou🏴
Rotorless
Saulthorin
Above Average Joe
GSE Completed works:
A Financial Analysis of Guilds and Projects 4
BanklessDAO Constitution and bDIP Standard 3 Version 2 1
Compensation System Bankless DAO 5
Recommendations for: 3
Membership
Leveling system
Org Units
Guild Focus
Seasonal BANK Buyback program
Project Funding Roadmap
DAO Legal Service
GSE
DAO Reporting
Ombuds review/Judicial Offboarding
TLDR
Review and vote on GSE deliverables to complete GSE Cohort 1.
Continue governance discussion in #governance 1 and #BDAO Governance Workstream
Summary
This proposal is meant to complete the first cohort of GSE’s, collect DAO sentiment in terms of the deliverables, and to support discussion about continuing governance through creating a governing body that incentivizes and supports governance.
BACKGROUND
The GSE was proposed to organize a group of people at the DAO to address two important challenges for the DAO:
Contributor Alignment - How do we properly reward active DAO contributors, accounting for the varying skill sets and time commitment people are making?
Strategic Prioritization - What should we say no to? How do we, as a DAO, learn how to say no? How do we do this in a way that empowers the community to make decisions while also letting high-context individuals influence outcomes?
The GSEs were elected and were tasked with creating deliverables that had the requirements of:
Detailed specification to implement.
Community consent and feedback must already be included.
Through Seasons 4 and 5 they completed the above deliverables, and we are wrapping up in Season 6.
FINANCIAL SPECIFICATION
Base GSE Pay:
Each Gov SE is guaranteed a 75,000 BANK salary.
At the end of the Season, the DAO will vote on two deliverables produced by the GSEs via forum vote. One for strategic prioritization and one for contributor Alignment. Each deliverable will be rated on a scale of 1 to 5, which will unlock additional compensation.
Each deliverable will unlock up to 375K BANK
Each rating will unlock 75K in funding. 1 = 75K, 2 = 150K, 3 = 225K, 4 = 300K, 5 = 375K
We recommend that they distribute this unlocked funding amongst each other through coordinape, to reflect individual contribution as measured by each other.
Funds will be held in a multi-sig held by the 5 GSEs
Once all compensation has been distributed, GSEs must produce a financial report outlining how funds were distributed.
Any funds not distributed will be returned to the treasury.
Further Details:
The two workstreams(contributor alignment and strategic prioritization), had 500k BANK each to allocate to work being done. The GSEs would like to compensate the following contributors for their work:
Ispeaknerd 70k - Compensation plan
Senad 70k - Compensation plan
Icedcool 70k - Administration, and completion of GSE
Aloy 3k - Coordinator Roles 2
Summary
The GSE was an experiment that had high aims, a lot of goals and due to the breadth of focus a number of difficult challenges. Amidst that, the GSE cohort 1 created deliverables and suggestions that have helped move the DAO forward in terms of governance discussion and focus. Overall, I view this as a good learning opportunity, that has further pointed the DAO toward developing and refining our governance.
Next Steps
Upon the completion of this vote, the GSE will be free to kick off a coordinape to distribute funding amongst each other, compensate contributors, and return any funds not used back to the DAO.
A future proposal is in the works to create a governance department for the DAO to further incentivize and support governance.
Join the conversation in #governance 1 and #BDAO Governance Workstream
POLLS
GSE VOTE
How to vote:
Based on your review of the above deliverables, vote 1-5 (1 being lowest, 5 highest) on how the deliverables have addressed the two prioritizations defined above.
Strategic Prioritization Deliverables:
bDIP candidates
Strategic Prioritization Vote
1
2
3
4
5
14
voters
Vote now!
Show results
Contributor Alignment Deliverables:
Constitution and bDIP Process
Contributor Alignment Vote
1
2
3
4
5
14
voters
Vote now!
Show results
Based on these polls payment will be released according to the financial specifications above.
3 Replies