Title: [CONCISE TITLE - KEEP CLEAN & NO PROPOSAL NUMBERS]
Authors: [DISCORD HANDLES w ID]
Squad: [DISCORD HANDLES & SPECIFY CHAMPION]
Date Created: [ADD CREATED DATE]
Date Posted: [ADD DATED POSTED TO DISCOURSE]
Summary
Sum up this proposal in a few bullet points or sentences.
BACKGROUND
Why are you making this proposal? What problem or opportunity does this proposal target? What are the driving factors behind why you think this is a good idea?
MISSION & VALUES ALIGNMENT
How does this project help the DAO achieve its mission and align with it’s values?
SCOPE OF WORK
What is within scope for this proposal? What objectives, goals, features, and executables do you propose achieving with this proposal?
Do your best to be realistic in expectations and tie your funding ask to what is achievable with that amount of money. You can always ask for more funding in the future as your idea continues to progress to furthering degrees of complexity. Start with the MVP, then V1, V2, and so on.
SPECIFICATION
Explain the project in detail. You’re expected to have done your homework and the more exact numbers and implementation details, the more likely the proposal will be approved. Include squad details, including any positions that have yet to be filled (e.g., you need to add someone from the dev guild to the squad).
You can get creative with the formatting of this section. For example, feel free to break it up into multiple specifications, include a project plan, or explain how the project will achieve its objectives in some other way.
FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS
Include details about funding requirements. You must include a detailed breakdown that explains how the funds will be allocated. Funding will not be approved for proposals without a funding breakdown. This is where the squad can request rewards for their expected contributions to the project, including any work done to scope the project and create the proposal.
This section only needs to be completed for projects that are requesting funding. If you are requesting seasonal funding, add a “Requesting Season [season #] Funding” tag to the project on the DAO project page prior to the snapshot vote for the seasonal projects.
BRAND USAGE
If the project will use the Bankless DAO brand outside the DAO, explain in detail how the brand will be used and add a “Bankless Brand” tag to the project.
SUCCESS METRICS OR KPIS
How will the project’s success be measured?
NEXT STEPS
Immediate action items, should this proposal be accepted
SQUAD BACKGROUND
Who you are & disclose your interests with making the proposal
POLL (Discourse Post Usage Only)
Add a poll with a clear for or against position (e.g., Approve/Reject or Yes/No). You can include a “support direction, but needs improvement” option, but that will be counted as a Reject/No vote for any funding purposes.
Include links to any other polls that have been conducted, such as discord polls to gauge support.
4