Thought: As we get ready for Season 5, most guilds across the DAO are going through Role Holder Elections.
Doing a bit of researching across the DAO has led me to believe that there are some guilds that do not have term limits, and those guilds have had the same members holding the same positions for 3 seasons or longer. I’d like to propose a discussion on the pro’s and cons of having term limits (or not having term limits) on role holders for guilds across the DAO.
In BanklessDAO, I initially was a part of the Research Guild. In my time in Research Guild, I held a role called the “South Wind Role” for the past two seasons. I had realized that after my second season, it was likely time to move on. Watching the elections occur, I noticed that there were two other role holders that have held on to their role for a third season.
I begin to think as to whether this is a good practice when dealing with a new organization style. I noticed role holders that have held on to their roles for more than two season in other guilds. I’m curious as to whether this is a good idea. Would this be something that would be fair for other members?
Some could say that I am wondering this because I did not share the opportunity of holding my role for a third season. I will admit that I had contemplated running for the South Wind role again. However, seeing that someone else was interested in the role, made me realize that it was likely my time to hang up the South Wind hat.
Personally, I believe that it would make sense to have role holders have term limits for their respective positions. I have this belief for two reasons. First, having a term limit on the position will make the membership more fair across the board. More members who have an interest in running for a role will be able to do so without being concerned about running against a multiple time incumbent. This will also lead those members to being motivated enough have a greater engagement in the guild.
Sometimes having a goal in mind will help a person become more interested, in more engaged, since they are working with a goal in mind. Second, I having a term limit will lead to having a greater variety of philosophies, and mindsets when it comes to ways to perform their role.
For example, a person who runs as governance coordinator, or talent coordinator, for 2 seasons, can have a more relaxed approach to a person who is brand new to the role.
I’d like to see if other people have opinions on whether term limits would be a good idea for guilds going forward.
Are term limits a good idea for role holders?
Yes, I believe that Term Limits are a good idea for Role Holders
No, I believe that Term Limits are unnecessary for Role Holders
64
voters
Show results
1 Reply
8