Title: S4 - Grants Committee Vacancy Election
Authors: Icedcool🏴#4947
Date Posted: April 4th, 2022
TLDR
Grendel stepped down from the Grants Committee for Season 4
Due to this and based on the Grants Committee Spec(link) the Grants Committee is taking applicants to fill the position that will be voted on after the application period.
Summary
Grendel recently stepped down from the grants committee and due to this the Grants Committee has a vacant seat.
This post is to take applicants to fill that position, based on the initialization spec(link).
The Grants Committee consists of 5-7 members along with a multisig with all committee members as signers.
The Committee is responsible and accountable for managing the grants system, reviewing grant applications, and managing the grants treasury, with the help of other guilds as needed (e.g., treasury).
The Committee has a quorum with four members over seven OR three members over five, but is otherwise responsible for their own operations.
The Committee cannot change the application process to be a Committee member without a snapshot vote and is encouraged to accept the DAO’s proposal template.
The Grants Committee is required to be transparent and communicative with the DAO, such as access to Committee meetings and an opportunity to voice opinions and feedback.
The voting period will last one week and will take place on Snapshot:
Grants Committee Applications will be submitted and decided on by a weighted snapshot vote, and the highest voted application will be elected into the Grants Committee.
Any unapproved candidate can gather feedback, improve their resume, and resubmit for future vacancies.
Committee members can be recalled with an instant vote of 51% or more. Committee members may leave the Committee at any time by submitting a written resignation note to the Committee.
To submit your application, please reply to this post including:
Discord handle
Reason for applying
Qualifications
Sponsor(s) (i.e., those who will second your nomination - the more the merrier!)
Timeline
Applications will be closed 4/19/22.
A weighted vote snapshot will be kicked off, and the highest voted participant will be elected to fill the vacancy starting in Season 4.
5