Dear BanklessDAO family.
Thank you for reading this post. I have been in BanklessDAO since June2021, and this felt like a long time. And i’ve been thinking about this for the longest time, and I finally have to say it. And here I go.
May I suggest we adopt the following as our mission instead:
"To be the premier media DAO in the metaverse"
Our current mission reads: “We will help the world go Bankless by creating user-friendly onramps for people to discover decentralized financial technologies through education, media, and culture.”
Or how we usually say “Onboard a billion people to Crypto”
This mission tends to cause a lot of confusion to us, because it is hard to know how much we actually contributed to this.
Let’s look at what are the main activities we are doing today?
Media related
Writing newsletters, blogs, articles
Creating podcasts, Crypto sapiens, podcast hatchery, AV content
Creating educational media, bankless academy, workshops
Creating NFTs, DAOpunks, emerging artist art, metafactory merch, NFT flipper tools
Perpetuating bankless culture, memes, satires, talk shows
International media nodes to spread the word
Social related
NFT club
Bankless whale club
Level 1 club
Vibe club and games
Further explanation
If we look deep into what we are doing today, we are a Media and Social DAO, and we should do these things with pride.
The old world cannot understand these metaversal and web3 things, and hence, cannot seem to come up with great content for this space. And that’s what we excel at, and we are the first mover.
Currently there could be 100-300 million metaverse citizens, when this number reaches 10x, there will be bigger demand for high quality media that BanklessDAO and LLC is currently providing.
People would want to listen, read, live and breath, great untainted, unfiltered content.
And this I feel should also form our main revenue stream. We can start gating our great content behind $BANK tokens, DAOpunk NFT, POAPs, or a small subscription.
Further TLDR:
I do not suggest we change any of our activities, just changing the mission to more clearly represent our current BanklessDAO activities.
This proposed mission makes all our lives so much easier, because we clearly know what we need to do now.
Why the use of metaverse?
We are living in the metaverse, interacting with people through the internet. I considered using web3 or other terms, but I came back to this term. Essentially this term has to encapsulate this new Bankless, web3 world we are now operating in.
Measurements of success?
This new mission is easier to measure success as well. We can count the percentage of metaverse citizens engaging with our content. We can count the percentage of DAOs engaging with us. We can find out which media company new DAOs first go to. Like what is their “go-to” media powerhouse.
Please let me know how you feel.
Please adopt this new mission and bring it to snapshot
I do not agree, keep the current one
I do not agree, I suggest…
26
voters
Show results
3